Michael Crichton's Use of Characterization in Jurassic Park

The characterization in Jurassic Park is an excellent example of how to use characterization to create a story. The characters are all very well developed and the reader can easily relate to them.Michael Crichton uses characterization in Jurassic Park to engage readers and help readers understand the text. 
Characterization is used to engage the reader in Jurassic Park. The characterization of Ian Malcolm makes readers endeared to him. Eventually, when he is attacked by the T-Rex, readers continue reading to see what happens to him, engaged because of their own emotional attachment to Ian Malcolm. We can see the crafting of characterization of Ian Malcolm on page 178, "'...Life breaks free. Life expands to new territories. Painfully, prehaps even dangerously. But life finds a way.' Malcolm shook his head. 'I don't mean to be philosophical, but there it is.'" This characterization shows Malcolm's self-confidence and endears the reader to him, as Malcolm puts to words what many readers may be thinking. The characterization of Ian Malcolm is used to engage the reader in Jurassic Park.
Characterization is used to help readers understand the text in Jurassic Park. The characterization of Henry Wu helps readers understand the text. Henry Wu is developed in a simple way. In the scenes in the control room, he talks with John Arnold, asking questions that the reader may wonder. The reader can understand the text better because of the characterization of John Arnold. We can see the crafting of characterization of Henry Wu on page 258, "Wu shook his head. 'It isn't a bug in the code at all.' 'No, ' Arnold said. 'It's a trap door... Gives him access to every place in the park.'" This characterization guides the reader into understanding the technological jargon that is used in the text. The characterization of Henry Wu helps readers understand the text in Jurassic Park.
Michael Crichton uses characterization to engage readers and help readers understand the text in Jurassic Park. The characterization of Ian Malcolm and Henry Wu are excellent examples of how to use characterization to engage readers and help readers understand complicated topics. The characterization of Ian Malcolm is used to engage the reader. The characterization of Henry Wu is used to help readers understand the text.